# xayn_front_office_sdk

Front Office API
- API version: 1.0.0-rc8
  - Build date: 2023-02-07T10:16:04.581562Z[Etc/UTC]

# Front Office
The front office is typically used within front-end apps, for example a website or a mobile application.
With this SDK, you can handle interactions with documents and request a list of personalized documents.

## User
Each method requires a `user_id`.
From our perspective, a `user_id` is simply required to group interactions together. We don't need to know who that user is, so it is preferred to create this `user_id` in a privacy-preserving way.
For example, create a hash method which transforms your user into an ID hash.

## Document
A document here is represented by its `id` and optional `properties`.
In order to display a document in an interface, it's preferred to use `properties`, which is an arbitrary collection of values.
For example, it could contain an image url, a full article url, the publication date, the author or much more.
The properties that were added when the document was submitted to us, are just mirrored here.

## Auth
The API requires an authenticationToken when used.
Please see further down in this README.md file, or refer to the test included in this SDK's codebase, on how to set this token correctly.
\\


*Automatically generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech)*


## Requirements

Building the API client library requires:
1. Java 1.8+
2. Maven (3.8.3+)/Gradle (7.2+)

## Installation

To install the API client library to your local Maven repository, simply execute:

```shell
mvn clean install
```

To deploy it to a remote Maven repository instead, configure the settings of the repository and execute:

```shell
mvn clean deploy
```

Refer to the [OSSRH Guide](http://central.sonatype.org/pages/ossrh-guide.html) for more information.

### Maven users

Add this dependency to your project's POM:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.xayn</groupId>
  <artifactId>xayn_front_office_sdk</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.22</version>
  <scope>compile</scope>
</dependency>
```

### Gradle users

Add this dependency to your project's build file:

```groovy
  repositories {
    mavenCentral()     // Needed if the 'xayn_front_office_sdk' jar has been published to maven central.
    mavenLocal()       // Needed if the 'xayn_front_office_sdk' jar has been published to the local maven repo.
  }

  dependencies {
     implementation "com.xayn:xayn_front_office_sdk:1.0.22"
  }
```

### Others

At first generate the JAR by executing:

```shell
mvn clean package
```

Then manually install the following JARs:

* `target/xayn_front_office_sdk-1.0.22.jar`
* `target/lib/*.jar`

# Getting started

## Prerequisities

Before using this library, ensure that you have submitted a reasonably large amount of documents via our other SDK, the back office.

Any usage of this SDK depends on the above requirement, without it, none of the functionality that this SDK provides will be of use.

## Setting up the SDK

Our SDK includes a test code page, which simply invokes each existing method. Method invocation examples can always be copied from there.

This SDK has been generated via OpenAPI. The original spec files can be found in our [open source git repository](https://github.com/xaynetwork/xayn_discovery_engine/tree/main/web-api/openapi).
If preferred, you can also generate the SDK yourself using the tooling provided by [OpenAPI](https://www.openapis.org/).

The following code snippet initializes the API using 2 parameters:
- A `base_url`, which acts as the endpoint for API calls
- An authorization token

```java
FrontOfficeApi api = new FrontOfficeApi(new ApiClient());

api.getApiClient().setBasePath($URL).setApiKey($TOKEN);
```

## Interacting with documents

Next, we will create an interaction for a document. We currently support only a positive interaction, or a "like".

The following paramers are required:
- A valid document ID, matching any ID which exists in the system
- A user ID

As explained above, a user is nothing more than a unique `String` under which we accumulate document interactions.

The user does not need to be created seperately, if we receive an "unknown" user via an interaction, then we simply create that user on our side. The user then exists from this point and can recurringly be used in the future.

The next example is a simple document interaction:

```java
UserInteractionRequest userInteractionRequest = new UserInteractionRequest();
List<UserInteractionData> documents = new ArrayList<UserInteractionData>();

documents
    .add(new UserInteractionData()
    .id("document_A")
    .type(UserInteractionType.POSITIVE));

userInteractionRequest.setDocuments(documents);

api.updateUserInteractions($USER, userInteractionRequest);
```

## Obtaining user recommendations

If you have performed at least _one_ interaction for a given `user_id`, as portrayed in the above example, then you can also use the next example to fetch recommendations.

The count parameter is optional, it defaults to 10 if not specified.

```java
api.getPersonalizedDocuments($USER, 10);
```